
                         === [ SB-Scope v0.95 ] ===

                                      by

                                Andrew Ferrier
                                 ............

                      Information and Documentation File

 Legal Information

   This program (SB-Scope), as well as it's affiliated files, listed below,
   are copyright Andrew Ferrier, Spheroid Software 1996.

   Andrew Ferrier and Spheroid Software disclaim all and any responsibility
   for any harm, loss of earnings, destruction, or anything that this program
   or its affiliated files may do, through use or misuse by you or anyone
   or anything else.

   Andrew Ferrier and Spheroid Softwae make no guarantees with respect to
   this program (and it's affiliated files), and any suitability for
   a purpose.

   Andrew Ferrier retains all copyright rights to this program, and this
   program or its associated files may not be tampered with in any way.
   This includes disassembling, decompiling, and reverse engineering.

   This program can be distibuted freely, but only in it's original form
   (a ZIP file), and with all original files intact.

   All copyrights, trademarks, and service marks mentioned in this file
   and others that are part of the SB-Scope package belong to their respective
   companies.

 Contents of ZIP File

   SBSCOPE.TXT          This text file
   FILE_ID.DIZ          Bulletin board information file
   README.1ST           Text File directing you here
   SBSCOPE.EXE          SB-Scope Program - SB Port 220h (default)
   SBSC_240.EXE         SB-Scope Program - SB Port 240h
   SBSC_260.EXE         SB-Scope Program - SB Port 260h
   SBSC_280.EXE         SB-Scope Program - SB Port 280h

 What is SB-Scope?

   SB-Scope is a oscilloscope for the Sound Blaster output. It displays
   the digital wave output (DSP output) of the Sound Blaster on the
   screen. This output can come fom many places. Two of the most common
   are an Audio CD Player (povided it is connected to the sound card), and
   a microphone (hooked up to the microphone port).

 What is required to run SB-Scope?

   Only a Sound Blaster (almost any type should do, right down to the
   earliest mono Sound Blasters), and a VGA card + monitor. A 80386 or
   greater processor is also required, because SB-Scope is written in
   386+ assembly language.

 How do I use SB-Scope?

   Very easily. Simply run sbscope.exe, having started a CD or some
   other input source to the Sound Blaster. To end the program, press
   any key. You may find more visually pleasing results by altering
   mixer settings for your sound card, especially output volume.

   If your Sound Blaster I/O port is set to anything other than 220h
   (you should have set the I/O port when installing the card), then you
   may need to use one of the other versions of the program listed above.
   Simply run sbsc_xxx.exe, where xxx is the port number. If you do not
   know what the I/O port number is, look in the documentation for
   your computer and/or sound card for information on finding it out.

 Hints for use

   First please make it known that although I understand digital audio,
   I am not an expert on acoustics and sound in general. What follows
   are only my observations.

   1. Lowering the sound volume (at source, in the mixer) may look better
      on the screen, for the wave will be of more sensible proportions.

   2. Voice and drums generally look fairly good. Guitars, especially
      electric ones with complex music in the background, tend to mix
      up the wave and it looks rather confused and random.

   3. 'Smooth' sounds produce cleaner-looking waves than harsh sounds.

   4. Running the program on a faster computer may help to make the wave
      smoother. I run it on a 386sx/16 and it is almost full speed apart
      from when the wave is at maximum amplitude. Remember, SB-Scope
      cannot run on a computer lower than a 386, for it uses 386
      instructions, which at the time of writing are only supported by the
      386, 486, Pentium, Pentium Pro and similar 'clones'.

 How do I contact Spheroid Software?

   This program is freeware, but a response on what you think of it
   would be appreciated. Similarly, if you cannot get it to work, and
   you are sure you have a computer with all the features mentioned above,
   we would like to know - problems can normally be fixed quickly,
   and a bug-free copy can probably be sent to you.

 SPECIAL NOTE:

   Spheroid Software is looking for budding programmers who want
   to distribute their programs. Visit the Spheroid Software web site
   (address above) for details. Any sort of progamming experience
   suitable.

